Update MITM to Machine-in-the-Middle (#3175)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: Document/0x04f-Testing-Network-Communication.md

# Mobile App Network Communication

> Practically every network-connected mobile app uses the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) or HTTP over Transport Layer Security (TLS), HTTPS, to send and receive data to and from remote endpoints. Consequently, network-based attacks (such as packet sniffing and machine-in-the-middle-attacks) are a problem. In this chapter we discuss potential vulnerabilities, testing techniques, and best practices concerning the network communication between mobile apps and their endpoints.

Reviewer: The current phrasing makes it seem like using HTTP/HTTPS inherently leads to vulnerability, which isn't accurate. The real issue is improper implementation, such as using HTTP instead of HTTPS or failing to validate TLS certificates properly.

```suggestion
Almost every network-connected mobile app relies on the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) or its secure version, HTTPS (which uses Transport Layer Security, TLS) to exchange data with remote endpoints. If not implemented securely, this communication can be vulnerable to network-based attacks such as packet sniffing and Machine-in-the-Middle (MITM) attacks. In this chapter, we explore potential vulnerabilities, testing techniques, and best practices for securing mobile app network communication.
```

- On a rooted device, you can use hooking or code injection to intercept network-related API calls (e.g. HTTP requests) and dump or even manipulate the arguments of these calls. This eliminates the need to inspect the actual network data. We'll talk in more detail about these techniques in the "Reverse Engineering and Tampering" chapters.
- On macOS, you can create a "Remote Virtual Interface" for sniffing all traffic on an iOS device. We'll describe this method in the chapter "Basic Security Testing on iOS".

### Simulating a Machine-in-the-Middle Attack with bettercap

#### Network Setup

> To be able to get a machine-in-the-middle position your host computer should be in the same wireless network as the mobile phone and the gateway it communicates to. Once this is done you need the IP address of your mobile phone. For a full dynamic analysis of a mobile app, all network traffic should be intercepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve a Machine-in-the-Middle (MITM) position, your host computer must be on the same wireless network as the mobile device and the gateway it communicates with. Once this is set up, you need to obtain the IP address of the mobile device. For a complete dynamic analysis of a mobile app, all network traffic should be intercepted and analyzed.
```

If that's the case, you are now able to see the complete network traffic that is sent and received by the mobile phone. This includes also DNS, DHCP and any other form of communication and can therefore be quite "noisy". You should therefore know how to use [DisplayFilters in Wireshark](https://wiki.wireshark.org/DisplayFilters "DisplayFilters") or know [how to filter in tcpdump](https://danielmiessler.com/study/tcpdump/#gs.OVQjKbk "A tcpdump Tutorial and Primer with Examples") to focus only on the relevant traffic for you.

> > Machine-in-the-middle attacks work against any device and operating system as the attack is executed on OSI Layer 2 through ARP Spoofing. When you are MITM you might not be able to see clear text data, as the data in transit might be encrypted by using TLS, but it will give you valuable information about the hosts involved, the protocols used and the ports the app is communicating with.

Reviewer: We should keep the capitalization consistent. Could you please also update the rest?

```suggestion
> Machine-in-the-Middle attacks work against any device and operating system as the attack is executed on OSI Layer 2 through ARP Spoofing. When you are MITM you might not be able to see clear text data, as the data in transit might be encrypted by using TLS, but it will give you valuable information about the hosts involved, the protocols used and the ports the app is communicating with.
```

> > Machine-in-the-Middle attacks work against any device and operating system as the attack is executed on OSI Layer 2 through ARP Spoofing. When you are MITM you might not be able to see clear text data, as the data in transit might be encrypted by using TLS, but it will give you valuable information about the hosts involved, the protocols used and the ports the app is communicating with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> MITM attacks work against any device and operating system as the attack is executed on OSI Layer 2 through ARP Spoofing. When you are MITM you might not be able to see clear text data, as the data in transit might be encrypted by using TLS, but it will give you valuable information about the hosts involved, the protocols used and the ports the app is communicating with.
```

### Simulating a Machine-in-the-Middle Attack with an access point

#### Network Setup

A simple way to simulate a Machine-in-the-Middle (MITM) attack is to configure a network where all packets between the devices in scope and the target network are going through your host computer. In a mobile penetration test, this can be achieved by using an access point the mobile devices and your host computer are connected to. Your host computer is then becoming a router and an access point.

Following scenarios are possible:

- Use your host computer's built-in WiFi card as an access point and use your wired connection to connect to the target network.
- Use an external USB WiFi card as an access point and use your host computer's built-in WiFi to connect to the target network (can be vice-versa).
- Use a separate access point and redirect the traffic to your host computer.

> The scenario with an external USB WiFi card require that the card has the capability to create an access point. Additionally, you need to install some tools and/or configure the network to enforce a Machine-in-the-Middle position (see below). You can verify if your WiFi card has AP capabilities by using the command `iwconfig` on Kali Linux:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scenario with an external USB WiFi card require that the card has the capability to create an access point. Additionally, you need to install some tools and/or configure the network to enforce a MITM position (see below). You can verify if your WiFi card has AP capabilities by using the command `iwconfig` on Kali Linux:
```

#### MITM Attack

> To be able to get a Machine-in-the-Middle position you need to run the above configuration. This can be done by using the following commands on Kali Linux:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to get a MITM position you need to run the above configuration. This can be done by using the following commands on Kali Linux:
```

    WebRequest.DefaultWebProxy = new WebProxy("192.168.11.1", 8080);
    ```

> - 2nd way: Use bettercap in order to get a Machine-in-the-Middle position (MITM), see the section above about how to setup a MITM attack. When being MITM you only need to redirect port 443 to your interception proxy running on localhost. This can be done by using the command `rdr` on macOS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 2nd way: Use bettercap in order to get a MITM position, see the section above about how to setup a MITM attack. When being MITM you only need to redirect port 443 to your interception proxy running on localhost. This can be done by using the command `rdr` on macOS:
```
